---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Motto. Etc.

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>JEC 7020</p>
    <p>110, 8th street</p>
    <p>Troy, New York, 12180</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Ram Ram Ram

With over 15 years of experience in the Biochemical and Biomedical field, I’ve dedicated my career to advancing the frontiers of biophysics, computational modeling, fluorescence imaging, and machine learning in functional imaging.

My expertise lies in designing and developing innovative optical imaging modalities. I’ve focused on time-resolved optical imaging, single-pixel imaging, fluorescence molecular tomography, and wide-field fluorescence lifetime imaging (NIR and SWIR) for non-invasive cancer imaging and drug-target binding quantification. To extract meaningful insights from the complex data generated by these modalities, I’ve developed advanced deep learning and computational models for efficient and accurate processing.

My academic journey began at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, where I earned dual degrees in Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology. Post-graduation, I worked as a Business Analyst at Evalueserve before returning to IIT Delhi to pursue my Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering. During my doctoral research, I focused on developing novel technologies for infectious disease diagnosis. One of my significant achievements was the creation of a compact TIRF microscope, dubbed “SeeTB,” for mycobacterium tuberculosis diagnosis. This innovative technology, which is about the size of a calculator, has been translated into a field-deployable product and received CDSCO medical device certification in India.

My overarching research goal is to develop and deploy user-friendly medical technologies that can make a real-world impact. Beyond my technical expertise, I’m also passionate about mathematics and deep learning, and I continue to explore new avenues in these fields.
